PostHog vs Amplitude blog article (#3404)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/posthog-vs-amplitude.md

Amplitude doesn't have session recording, so you have to run a third-party tool [like Hotjar or FullStory](/blog/best-open-source-session-replay-tools) as well – an added expense that lacks the tight integration afforded by a built-in app.

### Experimentation and Feature Flags

Feature Flags and Experimentation (A/B testing and multivariate tests) are core PostHog features, available for free for anyone generating fewer than 1 million events per month. Feature Flags are also free as part of [PostHog Open Source](/signup/self-host)

Amplitude Analytics doesn't include feature flags or experimentation by default, instead bundling them as part of a separate product, Amplitude Experiment, an additional cost on top of its core analytics product.

### Transparent pricing

All versions of PostHog are transparently priced – even the [Enterprise version](/pricing), which adds single sign-on (SAML), team training, instance monitoring, and more. Paid tiers (excluding Enterprise) are free up to 1 million events per month, and pricing calculators show exactly how much you'll pay when you go over 1 million. The more you use, the cheaper it gets per event.

> Amplitude doesn't share its pricing publibly, so you have to speak to their sales team to get up and running, and negotiate a price based on your usage. It's a bit like a really expensive restaurants. It looks fancy and expensive, but you only find out how expensive it is when you're already sat at your table.

Author: ```suggestion
Amplitude doesn't share its pricing publibly, so you have to speak to their sales team to get up and running, and negotiate a price based on your usage. It's a bit like a really expensive restaurant. It looks fancy and expensive from the outside, but you only find out just how expensive it is when you're already sat at your table.
```

## How is PostHog different from Amplitude?

Let's start with the core differences. Over 9,000 companies already use PostHog, and many have switched from Amplitude. Here are a few reasons why.

### 1. It's open source
Our MIT License isn’t just for show. You can access [our source code](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog), raise your own issues and PRs, and use it to [build your own plugins](/docs/plugins/build) or even add extra functionality. You also benefit from the work of other teams who build their own plugins. And we're not just an open-source tool; we're an open-source company. Our [company handbook](/handbook) is open to everyone, as is [how we pay people](/handbook/people/compensation).

### 2. It's built for engineers
Unlike Amplitude, PostHog is built for software developers. PostHog autocaptures events, so you don't need to waste time instrumenting events every time you update your app or website. Our pricing is transparent, and we're entirely self-serve. You can setup PostHog and start paying us without ever speaking to a sales rep, but we have an [awesome customer success team](/signup/self-host/get-in-touch?plan=scale&demo=scale#demo) if you have questions.

> ### 3. You control your data

Reviewer: I feel this should be number 1 in the list. I feel this is more generally applicable than the first one.

You can self-host PostHog and keep total control of your data. That means no third-party cookies, no data sharing, and straightforward [GDPR](/docs/privacy/gdpr-compliance) and [HIPAA compliance](/docs/privacy/hipaa-compliance). We also offer [PostHog Cloud](/pricing#cloud) for those who prefer a fully-managed SaaS experience, while partners like [Altinity](/marketplace/altinity) can manage a self-hosted instance on your behalf.

<ArrayCTA /> 

## Feature comparison

<div className="overflow-x-auto -mx-5 px-5">
<table className="w-full mt-4" style="min-width: 600px;">
	<thead>
    	<tr>
        	<td></td>
        	<td className="w-2/12 text-center"><strong>Amplitude Analytics</strong></td>
        	<td className="w-2/12 text-center"><strong>PostHog Cloud</strong></td>
        	<td className="w-2/12 text-center"><strong>PostHog Self-host</strong></td>
    	</tr>
	</thead>
	<tbody>
    	<tr>
        	<td><strong>Platform</strong></td>
        	<td></td>
        	<td></td>
        	<td></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>
			<td>Open source</td>

>         	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>

Author: Preview link: https://deploy-preview-3404--posthog.netlify.app/blog/posthog-vs-amplitude#feature-comparison

        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>
        	<td>Unlimited users</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
    	<tr>
        	<td>Autocapture</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
		<tr>
        	<td>GDPR compliance</td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-red text-lg">✖</span></td>
        	<td className="text-center"><span className="text-green text-lg">✔</span></td>
    	</tr>
		<tr>

>         	<td>HIPAA compliance</td>

Author: I mean, we do claim this already afaik @charlescook-ph?

>         	<td>HIPAA compliance</td>

Reviewer 2: I think we can say yes because other solutions don't actually enable you to take that step, whereas we do (so I'm happy for us to claim we are HIPAA compliant)

**Import available via [Reverse ETL integration by Hightouch](/blog/hightouch-posthog-reverse-etl-integration)

## Strengths of PostHog 

### Integrated session recording
While Amplitude and PostHog share many features, PostHog has [Session Recording](/product/session-recording) built into all editions of PostHog, including PostHog Open Source. 

Session recording is an incredibly powerful tool for understanding what people are actually doing in your product. The tight integration within PostHog means you can go from viewing a funnel insight to watching real users interact with the funnel, making it easy to diagnose problems and find solutions.

Amplitude doesn't have session recording, so you have to run a third-party tool [like Hotjar or FullStory](/blog/best-open-source-session-replay-tools) as well – an added expense that lacks the tight integration afforded by a built-in app.

### Experimentation and Feature Flags

All paid plans of PostHog include our Experimentation suite for running A/B and multivariate tests, while feature flags and session recording are no additional cost features on all versions of PostHog, including [PostHog Open Source](/signup/self-host).  

> Amplitude analytics doesn't include feature flags or experimentation by default, instead bundling them as part of a separate product, Amplitude Experiment. Like all Amplitude products, Experiment is a price on application only product. 

Author: It means you have to talk to sales to find out how much it costs

> Amplitude analytics doesn't include feature flags or experimentation by default, instead bundling them as part of a separate product, Amplitude Experiment. Like all Amplitude products, Experiment is a price on application only product. 

Reviewer 3: I think I'd just say that then. "a price on application only product" reads very weirdly to weirdly to me. Maybe it'd be clearer if it was a price-on-application only, but I'd still say that saying there pricing isn't transparent and you need to contact sales is clearer.

> Amplitude analytics doesn't include feature flags or experimentation by default, instead bundling them as part of a separate product, Amplitude Experiment. Like all Amplitude products, Experiment is a price on application only product. 

Author: Kind of see your point. Have changed in the latest revision.

> ### Transparent pricing

Author: I don't totally follow

> ### Transparent pricing

Author: Got you. Have updated now.

## Strengths of Amplitude

### Personalization engine and machine learning

In addition to its analytics product, Amplitude offers Amplitude Recommend, a personalization engine powered by machine learning. It allows teams to create custom experiences, such as product recommendations or priority ordering, based on machine learning predictions. This is a potentially powerful tool for large e-commerce businesses who are looking to create an Amazon-style shopping experience.

Amplitude also uses machine learning to power what it calls predictive analytics, which estimates future outcomes (e.g. future conversion rate) based on current and historical data. This could be useful for performance forecasting, especially for marketing teams.

### Free up to 10 million events per month

Amplitude's entry-level tier is free to use up to 10 million events per month, which compares very favorably to rivals like Mixpanel (up to 100k monthly users), Pendo (up to 1,000 monthly users) and Heap (up to 10,000 sessions per month). Once you exceed 10 million events, you'll need to speak to Amplitude's sales team to proceed further.

> PostHog's model is slightly different. PostHog Open Source, which [anyone can self-host](/docs/self-host), is totally free for life. PostHog Cloud is free up to 1 million events per month, and this includes premium features like Experimentation and Correlation Analysis not available on Amplitude's free Starter tier.

Reviewer 4: I'd say PostHog Cloud and PostHog Scale are free up to 1m events here
